Good afternoon, everybody.
My name is Dan Kurtz.
I'm an iOS engineer on the
Game Center team here at Apple,
and I'm here to talk to you about
integrating your game with Game Center.
So let's get right down to it.
What is Game Center?
Well,
Game Center is a gaming platform that
allows players to track their progress
in your games as they're playing them,
as well as connect with their other
Game Center friends through your games.
Game Center is built upon
three fundamental pillars
that make up the platform:
players,
Scores and achievements.
Now, some of you might be new to the
Game Center platform and that's
maybe why you're here today,
but I bet you that these are all
familiar concepts for you already.
I mean,
these are terms that have been within our
gaming lexicon for a very long time now.
And I suppose that there might
be some of you out there today
that when you think about players,
scores, and achievements and how it
relates to your game's development,
you might have a dev cycle
that looks something like this.
That is, you make your game first,
and that's from your
game design document,
pen to paper,
to arguing with your level designers and
making your engine and all those things.
And then your second step,
which might be your last step,
is to sort of shellack on this code
that's for player authentication
for whatever service and submitting
scores and maybe trying to drum
up ideas of what might be a
good achievement for your game.
Well, again, that may be what some of you
think and feel when it comes to
player scores and achievements.
But I play a lot of games.
More than I want to admit in
front of my boss here today.
But for the really good games
out there on the App Store,
the ones that use Game Center and
player scores and achievements to
make a really special experience,
I think I've got it figured out.
I believe I know the reason that
makes these games so successful.
You guys flip the script.
You don't end with players'
scores and achievements.
You begin with them.
Now, let me give you an example.
If I am running through the
ruins of a lost civilization,
right, and I am passing way farther
than I've ever run before,
and I'm pretty sure I'm better
than my friends as well,
it would be okay at the end of the
game to just show a leaderboard showing
how I compare against my friends.
But you know what's really cool?
What's really awesome is when I am
passing the names of my friends as
I am running through this level.
It gives me this visceral,
interconnected experience.
Even though it's a single-player game,
it's almost as if I'm playing
against my friends right there.
That's just one example of the many
of how flipping the script starting
with players' scores and achievements
could really make your game great.
So how are we going to
get from here to there?
How is everybody here going to
get on the train of starting
your game design at this step?
Well, today I'm going to talk to you
more in depth about these three
fundamental pillars of Game Center:
players, scores, and achievements.
I'm also going to talk about some
new features that they introduced
yesterday as well as at the keynote,
that being challenges and game groups.
And along the way,
I'll be giving you ideas for
new possibilities that you can
take and turn your game into
an even brand new experience,
really make your game sing,
both with pre-existing features
of Game Center and these new
features that I'm really excited
to talk to you about today.
So we've got a lot of stuff to cover.
Let's dive right into it.
Let's get on with the very
first pillar of Game Center:
players.
Let's not talk about just
players in the abstract,
though, right?
Let's talk about an
actual Game Center player.
Let's talk about Eunice.
Eunice, like I said,
is a Game Center player.
She created a Game Center account
within the iOS app or soon
to be the Mountain Lion app.
And along with her account,
she has uploaded a player photo as
well as designated a player Elias.
This is gone doe.
It's Leet speak.
I'm terrible at reading it.
But when she logs into your game,
she's going to expect to
be able to submit scores,
earn achievements.
But don't forget,
Eunice has also got friends.
And whether your game's
single player or multiplayer,
she's looking to connect with those
friends in new and interesting
ways to really make your game fun.
So in the Game Kit platform, that is,
or I mean the Game Kit framework,
that is the framework you use
in order to communicate with
the Game Center platform,
we call Eunice, the current player who's
playing your game on her device,
the GK local player.
But there's a problem here.
When your game starts up,
before you do anything else,
you have no idea who she is.
You don't know what her photo looks like,
you don't have her alias,
you can't even inspect her friend graph,
let alone submit scores and achievements.
And it's because she's not authenticated
for Game Center for your game yet.
And authentication is the very first
step you need to take in order to
unlock these Game Center features.
So let's take a look at
how authentication works.
It's a very simple two-step process.
Step one, you just make an authenticate
call to the Game Center platform.
Then Game Center is going to
do some work in the background.
And asynchronously,
we're going to call you back with
the result of that authenticate call.
And 95% of the time or so,
that just results in,
on your game screen,
a little welcome back banner ticking
down at the top of the screen
that says Game Center is ready.
You can start submitting
scores and achievements.
And that's going to be the first
step you need to take in order to
unlock these Game Center features.
But for the rare case,
you lucky few out there who have a
player who isn't currently logged
into their Game Center account,
we present a view controller
that asks the player to log into
Game Center to use all these great
features that we provide to you.
Now this callback,
it doesn't just get called
when you call authenticate.
We automatically make a callback
to you in other cases as well.
You don't have to worry about it,
but I just want to bring it up front.
So let's take a look at all the cases
that we are making this callback to you,
telling you whether the current
player is authenticated or not.
First, just like I mentioned,
upon authenticate,
when you call this to Game Center,
we will call you back then.
But in the case of multitasking,
when your game has been
brought back to the foreground,
automatically we're going to
call you back then as well.
As well as,
if the current player isn't signed in
and you prevent a login view controller
to them and they press that sign in
button or any button on that screen,
we'll call you back then as well.
So this login view controller,
for veterans out in the crowd
who have used Game Center before,
you probably know what I'm talking about.
But I want you to actually listen up here
because this is a new feature for iOS 6
that's really important for your players.
Before iOS 6,
we sort of took the timing of
presenting this log-in view controller,
if it needed to be shown, upon ourselves.
We did not give you, the developer,
full control as to when would be a good
time to present this view controller.
And I bet you,
as fantastic game designers,
could probably tell where
this runs into problems.
If you've got a ditch jumper game, right,
and the player has to press a jump
button to jump over every ditch,
and we just happen to present that view
controller right before a big ditch,
what happens?
The player falls in a ditch, right?
And nobody wants to fall in a ditch.
So now with iOS 6,
we let you present this view
controller when you see fit.
We give you control so that
you can pause your game,
manage your game state,
and present the view controller,
get the player logged in,
let them start playing your game again
safely so they don't fall in that ditch.
So let's take a look at some code
as to actually do authentication.
Making the call,
being the very first step,
this is how you do it.
You notice here that we're
doing an application did
finish launching with options.
Now, this is the very first bit of code
that is going to be executed within
your game when it starts up anew.
So since authentication is the very
first step you need to take in order
to unlock Game Center features,
we really recommend that this is the
place that you run the authenticate call.
Now, it's very simple.
All you need to do is get a shared
instance of the GK local player object.
You set up the authentication handler.
That's step two.
We'll get on to what
that means in a moment.
Then you call Authenticate
on that local player.
That's it.
You've now just made
a call to Game Center,
and we're going to get back to you
through this authentication handler.
So let's take a look at step two:
handling that callback.
[Transcript missing]
All else fails, authentication failed.
The current player is not
logged into Game Center,
so you need to present
a graceful fallback.
Just disable Game Center features.
Don't try inspecting the friend graph.
Don't try submitting scores and
achievements on the player's behalf.
Let the players play your game.
Let them have some fun.
So that's fantastic.
You know,
we've gone through the three steps,
but what happens if authentication
fails and you don't know why?
Well, that's what this
NSError object is all about.
It tells you why authentication
happened to fail.
And there are two common points
where authentication can fail,
amongst others, but these are the ones
I want to focus on right now.
The first is GKErrorCancelled.
All this means is that if you presented
a login view controller and the
player pressed that cancel button,
that's the result that you get.
Or, if the player has opted out of using
the Game Center platform altogether,
outside of your game or within your game,
then you're going to get
that same error as well.
They mean the same thing.
The second error is a
bit mysteriously named,
and I hear a lot of questions about
this from new Game Center developers.
It's this GK error,
game unrecognized error.
All this is is an iTunes
Connect configuration issue.
It means that you haven't clicked
this button in iTunes Connect that
says "Enable Game Center features."
If you click this button,
this error will go away.
But if you've got a game that's
set up for Game Center already
and you create a new version
of that game in iTunes Connect,
you need to make sure that you're
clicking this button as well in
order to avoid any unforeseen errors.
So that's fantastic.
We have logged the player in.
That's the first step we need to
take in order to use all these
great Game Center features.
But since authentication is the very
first thing that you need to do,
it's really an issue of
importance to make a good first
impression on your players.
You want to be able to get your
players logged in and authenticated
with Game Center right away
so they can start having fun,
right?
Well, like I said, I play a lot of games,
and once in a while,
when I download a new game that
I'm really excited about playing,
sometimes I see an alert that
looks something like this.
This "Use Game Center.
Do you want to use
Game Center for this game or not?
OK and cancel, or maybe OK and disable."
And I am telling you today,
if you've got code
like this in your game,
you need to take it out.
The reason is twofold.
For one, from a usability perspective,
it's confusing to the user.
Now, what do I mean by that?
Consider Eunice, who has just created
a Game Center account,
right?
And she's logged into
Game Center on her device.
So she's logged into Game Center,
she opens up your game,
and you present this dialogue asking her,
"Do you want to use Game Center or
not?" She presses "No." Does that
mean that you've disabled
Game Center across your device?
Is it just for the game?
Are there gameplay consequences?
Who is she to know?
And if she presses "OK," well,
all that means is that you've made her
press a button again that she already
pressed before she got to the game.
So you're really just getting in her way.
The second reason, though,
is that with this alert,
you were writing checks
that you cannot cache.
Functionally,
this alert cannot work in all cases.
Consider the case where
Eunice has already opted out
of Game Center altogether.
Outside of your game,
she's canceled using Game Center,
and she has turned it off on her device.
And you ask her,
do you want to use Game Center or not?
Well, if she clicks OK,
what's going to happen?
Nothing.
There is no possible way that you
can re-enable Game Center features
for the current local player
if they've opted out of using
Game Center outside of your game.
So again, if you've got a menu like this,
or if you're thinking of
putting something like that in,
take it out.
Your game's not like menu commando.
It's about having fun.
You just want your players to log
into your game and start playing.
See that little welcome back banner,
and get on with having fun.
So again,
authentication is the very first step you
need to take to use Game Center features.
It's an asynchronous process.
Now,
I'm just singling this out here because
asynchronicity is a common trait
amongst the GameKit framework API.
And if authentication happens to fail,
provide a graceful fallback and
let players start playing your
game as soon as possible with
Game Center features disabled.
But along that same line,
you want to let your players play
your game as soon as possible,
right?
So avoid these extra dialogues
that don't really do what you
may be conveying to the player.
Just take them out, let players log in,
and let them start playing.
So we've got players
logged into your game.
You are now able to use these features.
So let's get on to the second
and third fundamental pillars of
Game Center — scores and achievements.
Now, in GameKit,
scores and achievements are
represented by the GK score class
and the GK achievement class.
So let's take a look at some of the
fundamental properties that define
GK score and GK achievement objects.
First up is GK score.
Now, GK score has three fundamental
properties that define it.
The first is an NSString category.
This just means which
leaderboard this score is for.
And you've defined this
string up on iTunes Connect.
The second is an int64 value.
Now, whether your game has a
leaderboard for points,
gems,
minutes and seconds or what have you,
under the hood,
it's all the same to GameKit.
It's an int64 type.
It's just really the score.
And thirdly,
very important but often overlooked,
is this 64-bit unsigned
property for context.
This is your personal scratch space
that you could do anything you want.
We suggest that when
you're submitting scores,
you stuff into the context
gameplay relevant data.
So if it happened to matter
that the current ship was
blue when this score was made,
set blue into that context.
And it will be there when you
receive the score on a querying end.
So for GK achievement,
it has two fundamental
properties that make it up.
The first,
similar to a category for score,
is the NSString identifier property.
This just links the achievement
for a certain achievement you've
defined on iTunes Connect.
Second is a double percent complete.
So achievements aren't a binary thing.
It's not I earned this
or I didn't earn this.
You can let your players gradually
earn achievements as well.
So if your game has four hidden
gems and you want to make that an
achievement to find all four hidden gems,
you could submit 25%, 50%, 75%,
100% for completion states.
So let's take a look at actually
writing code to submit achievements
for the current player.
For achievements,
all you need to do is create
your GKEachievement object.
You init it with the appropriate
identifier that you've
defined on iTunes Connect.
You set the percent complete.
In this case,
the achievement is totally earned.
And then you call report
achievement with completion handler.
Barring any error,
when this callback is made,
that means the achievement
has been successfully posted
to Game Center for the user.
Now, for scores, it's very similar.
You just create a GK score object and
knit it with the appropriate category
that you've defined on iTunes Connect.
You set your value.
In this case, it's 300 points, seconds,
whatever it may be.
And you set any appropriate
gameplay context.
Then you report the score
with a completion handler.
Just like an achievement,
when this callback is made,
barring any errors,
that score is now successfully posted to
the leaderboard that that score is for.
So this context, right?
I mentioned it a little bit before,
but again,
this is whatever matters about that
score and how it was earned in your game.
So again, if it's a racing game, right,
like some space battle racing game,
and the current ship was blue,
and that matters as to
how this score was earned,
well, stuff the color in there.
Or let's say the reason why she got
around the track in 300 seconds was
because her engine was so fast that
normal players can't really get.
Well, stuff the engine in there.
Or maybe it's the weapon system that let
her get 300 points blasting away enemies
as she was racing around the track.
It's really whatever you want.
And since it's 64 bits... Well,
this is a huge number space, right?
So you could use that to encode
URLs that are pointing to entire
replay data showing how the
player just earned that score.
We're going to be touching on
this a little bit later as well,
and I think you saw it
in Jeff's talk yesterday,
as well as with the half
brick guys on Jetpack Joyride.
This is something that
we're really excited about.
So I urge you to think up with
some great ideas of how you
can use context with scores.
So the elephant in the room, right?
This NSError.
Barring any errors,
your scores and achievements
will be successfully completed.
Well, provided your players successfully
authenticated into Game Center and
the category or identifier
you're using matches up with
what is defined in iTunes Connect,
You will not receive any errors from us.
Now, prior to iOS 5,
we also tended to give you back errors in
the case of network connectivity issues.
So if the current device
happened to fall offline,
we would give you a network error,
and we would ask you to cache
your scores and achievements and
resubmit them at a later date.
Now with iOS 5,
because this is sort of a troublesome
process for you guys to take,
it became unnecessary because
we introduced a small feature
called Store and Forward,
which took care of any network
connectivity issues transparently.
And if the device happened to be offline,
we would store those scores and
achievements and submit them once
connectivity was reached again,
which really made any of this old
code for iOS 4 devices of caching
and resubmitting totally unnecessary.
Now with iOS 6, I am telling you that if
you have this caching and
resubmitting code in your game,
to take it out,
because it's fundamentally incompatible
with Game Center for iOS 6.
More specifically, it's fundamentally
incompatible with challenges.
So if you happen to have some sort of
resubmission code that looks like this
— maybe it's that your application did
finish launching after an authenticate,
something like that — the Sync
Game Center scores and achievements or
Force Resync Game Center achievements,
take it out.
You don't need to worry about it.
You don't need to sweat the
small stuff because we've got
it covered for you anyway with
Store and Forward as of iOS 5.
So that's fantastic.
We've now been getting
a player logged in.
They're submitting their scores,
they're earning achievements,
and they could open up the
Game Center app right now and see
how they're doing within your game.
But you probably want to let players
see how they're doing and compare
their scores and achievements
with friends within your game
so they can keep playing it,
right?
Well,
we provide you that ability within iOS 6
and what we call the unified experience.
With just a few lines of code,
you can let players see their scores,
see their achievements,
even see the challenges
they've received from friends.
Very little work.
So the unified experience
is provided by this class,
GK Game Center View Controller.
And as I mentioned,
it provides a unified view of everything
Game Center related to your game.
So you see here in our game Crush,
we have a leaderboards
and achievements button.
If I were to happen to tap
that leaderboards button here,
up pops the
GK Game Center View Controller.
You'll see at the top of the screen,
players can rate your game right in
the app store or like it on Facebook,
as well as they can look at whatever
scores they've earned in your
game or achievements or challenges
they've received from friends.
And what this also means is
that you are future-proofed.
If we add more features in the
future and we drop it into the
GK Game Center View Controller,
you don't need to do anything
extra in order to have those
features right within your game.
So what's the code that's necessary
in order to display this in-game UI?
Well, in this case,
we've got a view controller
that has some target action
set up for a show UI button,
right?
And all we need to do is
grab a shared instance of the
GK Game Center view controller.
We set the Game Center delegate to self.
Now, this delegate's just going
to be called back when the
unified experience is dismissed.
We set the appropriate
initial view state,
and then we present the view controller
just like we would any other.
Now this view state actually allows
you to have some customizability
about what context this
unified experience starts with.
So let me be a little bit more specific.
If you wanted to start by showing
the player all the achievements
they've earned in your game because
you've got an achievement button,
you can do that by setting the view state
to the view state for achievements or
for the challenges that they've received.
Even for leaderboards,
but with leaderboards,
we give you even more fine-grained
control over which leaderboard
for what time you want to display.
And that's with only
two extra lines of code.
In this case,
we're going to show a leaderboard
that has all the scores earned
for today for level one.
So we set the view state to
the view state for leaderboard.
We set the leaderboard time scope
to the time scope for today.
We also set the leaderboard
category to the leaderboard
that we want to start off with.
In this case, it's level one.
The string matches up with what
you've got on iTunes Connect.
And away you go.
Now, when they tap that leaderboard
button for level one,
up pops all the top scores
for today for level one.
Now, the unified experience has
one feature that we're very
excited about called sharing.
And we allow you through the
unified experience or allow your
players to share their scores and
achievements with friends over any
social network that we support.
So that's Twitter, Facebook,
even messages or mail,
and even copying it to the
clipboard if so need be.
But that's great.
The unified experience allows
players to do that for free to you.
But what if you wanted to actually let
them share their scores and achievements
immediately within your game?
I mean, you know your game best,
so you probably know what screen
would be a great screen to let
players tweet it to the world,
right?
So let's say a player
just beat level one,
and they've got a score of 500 points,
and they just earned an achievement,
and they want to tweet to the world.
So we provide you the ability
to bring up what's called the
UI Activity View Controller to let
the player share their score through
any of these services and more.
Now, this again is done through the
UI Activity View Controller,
and this class, this object,
handles transport across any
different social service.
You don't need to write code
to allow submission of your
scores and achievements to
Facebook and Twitter and all that.
We cover that for you with this object.
And Game Center with iOS 6
provides direct drop-in support
for score and achievement sharing.
So if the player were to
tap the Twitter button here,
up would pop a tweet sheet
that has preformatted,
localized text for the
current player saying,
check out my score on the score
leaderboard with a URL that's
attached to that Twitter message.
So when they press send,
this score tweet is sent to the world,
letting players,
other possible players of your game,
discover your game.
So to do this in code,
it's very straightforward.
In the case of sharing a score,
you just need to get a reference to a
GK score object that you wish to share.
You set up the UI Activity
View Controller,
and you pass in the score
object through the init method.
You set up your completion
handler for this view controller.
Now,
the completion handler is called when
the sharing action has been completed,
so all you need to do is dismiss
the view controller at that time.
And finally,
you just present the view controller,
just like you would any
other view controller.
And for achievements,
it is nearly exactly the same thing.
The only thing that's different is
instead of creating a score object
and passing into the init method,
it's the achievement object
that you're passing in.
Everything else is dead simple,
exactly the same.
So for some things for you to keep
in mind with score and achievement
submissions as well as viewing,
when it comes to submitting scores,
think about context.
You've seen some examples already,
and we'll touch on some examples
later about how context can
really make your game special.
I mean, this is your way of adding
your signature to every score.
It's whatever is special about
your game can be imprinted on
every score your game's submitting.
As well as if you're submitting
scores and achievements and you've
got this legacy code from iOS 4 and
before of archiving and resubmitting
these scores and achievements,
make sure you take it out.
We've got it covered for you so
you don't need to worry about it,
and it will make your game 100%
compatible with challenges on
day one of iOS 6's release.
And if you want to let your
players view your leaderboards
as well as your achievements
and challenges for your game,
you can do that with just a few lines
of code through the unified experience.
So we've got players logged in,
they're submitting scores,
they're submitting achievements,
they're tweeting it to their
friends and their moms.
They are having a blast with your game.
But recall this slide.
It doesn't end here.
This is not the ending.
This really is the beginning.
How can we use players' scores
and achievements to make your game
truly special and really sing?
Let's take a look at an example.
Let's all remember Eunice right here.
And Eunice is earning scores now because
of the great code you just wrote,
as well as earning
achievements in your game.
But recall Eunice has friends.
She has a lot of friends,
and Eunice is a pretty hardcore gamer.
And she's playing this new game
that she's all excited about,
and she gets 500 points.
She knows Jessica here is
also playing that game,
but she hasn't really seen Jessica post
a score that's nearly as high as this,
right?
So normally,
players are excited about a game
and they know that they just
did better than their friends.
What happens?
Maybe they call each other
on the phone and say,
hey, I just, you know,
did better than you.
I bet you can't beat that.
Wouldn't it be great if we could take
advantage of this within your game's
gameplay and turn it into an entirely
new mode of game development and game,
you know, a way of having a fun
time within your game?
With iOS 6 and Game Center,
you can do that with challenges.
So you've heard about
challenges a lot already.
I want to explain exactly how they
work and how players will use them
to play your game in new ways.
So recall Eunice is
playing this game Crush,
right?
And she just beats level
one with a score of 500.
And she knows that Jessica might not
be doing as well as she is in Crush,
so she chooses to challenge Jessica to
beat her score of 500 points.
So she sends a challenge over to Jessica.
And right then, Jessica's device gets a
drop-in notification banner,
both on the home screen of her iPod
Touch as well as within your game,
saying Eunice has just challenged
you to beat her score of 500.
So let's say Jessica is on the
home screen like she is right now,
and she taps that notification banner.
That's going to start up Crush.
And Jessica's actually a little bit
better than Eunice had expected.
She beats level one,
getting a score of 600.
Well, 600 is greater than or
equal to 500 points,
which means that Jessica has
just beaten the challenge.
So right then,
both Eunice and Jessica get
a push notification saying,
"Jessica just beat this challenge."
And since this is a score challenge,
Jessica has automatically sent a
new challenge to Eunice telling her
to beat her score of 600 points.
Now, I've been talking about scores and
score challenges and auto-submission
and all that sort of stuff.
But it's not just scores
that challenge Eunice.
It's what the challenges are for.
We support both score challenges
and achievement challenges.
And what's more is if your
game supports leaderboards and
achievements for Game Center,
on day one of iOS 6's release,
it will automatically, out of the box,
support challenge play.
Players will be able to send
challenges to each other through the
Game Center app to compete with beating
scores and earning new achievements.
But before I get into all the who's,
why's, what's, how's, and how's,
I want to talk about a couple of things.
So, first of all,
I want to talk about how this all works.
Megan's here to actually show you
a game that we made called Crush,
which you've seen in
the screenshots already,
that takes advantage of both automatic
challenge play and extra API that
we provide to you in order to
customize the challenge experience.
So, Megan, take it away.
Thanks, Dan.
So Dan has explained to
you what challenges are,
and I'm going to help
you experience them.
So I'm also friends with Eunice,
and we have been playing
this great new game,
Crush.
And oh, look, it looks like Eunice has
actually just challenged me to
beat her score of 700 points.
And as you saw, it's just a notification.
So if we just go into
Notification Center,
you can just tap on that notification,
and we'll launch directly into Crush.
Because I've already downloaded
Crush because I've been playing
around with it a little bit.
And Crush has this great challenge mode.
And since we're doing a challenge,
why don't we tap on that?
And Crush has actually been
written to use the challenge API to
remind us who has challenged us,
Eunice, as well as she's actually
sent us a message,
and it is also reminding us
the score that we need to
beat to beat her challenge.
So why don't we play this game?
So this is just a pretty
simple top-down space shooter,
and I'm a pretty good gamer,
so I'm pretty sure that I'm
actually going to be able to
beat 700 points pretty quick.
And there we go, already over 700 points.
That's awesome.
But I was actually checking out the
achievements for this game earlier,
and there's actually an
achievement for beating level 1,
which I actually haven't
gotten around to doing yet.
So I'm just going to take a few more
seconds here and see if I can actually
just go ahead and beat level 1.
And there we go.
We were able to beat level 1,
so we unlocked that achievement.
We got a score of 4,600 points.
Which is well over the 700 points
that we needed to get in order
to beat Eunice's challenge.
So we got a challenge complete.
And as soon as I completed
this challenge,
Eunice actually got a challenge for
me to beat my score of 4,600 points.
And, you know, that's great and all.
She's got a challenge for me.
But I actually,
since I just completed this achievement,
I'd actually like to challenge her
to complete that achievement as well.
So if we just tap on this challenge,
friends.
Button.
We can actually send Eunice a challenge
directly from within the game.
So why don't we send that off to her and
see if she can not only beat our score,
but also beat our challenge.
So that is challenges for
scores as well as achievements.
And those are just some of the
few things that you can do to
add to the interactivity of
your game between your players,
even in single player games.
And I'm sure that you guys are
going to come up with some great
new ways to extend gameplay.
And some really cool stuff that
we haven't even thought of yet.
And I can't wait to see what you guys do.
Thanks.
Back to Dan.
Thanks a lot, Megan.
Right when the score is submitted,
having beaten that challenge,
Megan would have received
a push notification saying,
"You've just beaten Eunice's
challenge." And at that point,
there was custom UI that
would be displayed saying,
"Congratulations,
you just beat the challenge." And she
could have even sent an achievement
challenge right back to Eunice,
kind of piling it on a bit.
But you guys saw, hopefully,
at yesterday's games kickoff,
the Jetpack Joyride demo
that used challenges as well,
which also shows another way that you
could make custom challenge play within
your game to turn any single-player
or multiplayer game into a new,
interconnected, friend-based experience.
So, Rekall,
I talked about how challenges are free,
out of the box,
on day one of iOS 6's release,
provided your game supports
leaderboards and achievements.
Well, how does that work?
Well, Rekall,
your game is now going to be
reporting scores as well as reporting
achievements to the Game Center,
right?
So let's say Jessica has a challenge from
Eunice to beat a score of 500 points.
Jessica makes it — well,
you make for Jessica a report score
call to Game Center for 600 points,
which means that Game Center now sees
that that challenge for 500 is now
completed because Jessica just got 600.
So automatically, Game Center will push
back to Jessica's device,
telling her,
"You just beat Eunice Park's challenge."
Now that's fantastic,
but what if you wanted to actually
have in-game control of challenges?
Like, let's say you want to allow
players to programmatically,
automatically challenge their
friends within your game.
Again, I bet you all have a screen
that looks like this,
some sort of level complete screen,
and you're showing a score and
you're showing an achievement.
And before we discussed about how
we could allow players to share
their scores and achievements,
but what if you provided
control for players to also,
right then and there,
send a challenge to their
friends to beat that score,
to earn that achievement as well.
Well, to do that, it's very simple,
straightforward code.
For sending an achievement challenge,
you just need to first have the
friends of the current local
player that this challenge is for,
as well as a message,
both of which should be determined
by the current local player.
Then for an achievement challenge,
you just create an achievement object
like you would any other and knit
it with the appropriate identifier.
Set the percent complete to 100.
Call issue challenge to
players with a message.
Passing those players and the
message for that challenge.
Now with achievement challenges,
recall I said percent
complete equals 100.
While achievements can
be gradually earned,
as far as challenges go,
you can only challenge someone
to fully earn an achievement,
not gradually.
So when you're sending
an achievement challenge,
you want to make sure that this percent
complete property is set to 100.
For scores, it's very similar.
You set up the friends who
are going to receive this
challenge as well as any message.
And then you create your GK score
object like you would any other.
You init it with a category.
You set the point value it's for
as well as any gameplay appropriate
context so you can get reference
to that context when you receive
the challenge on the other side.
Then you call issue challenge to
players message on that GK score object.
And right then and there,
it will be automatically sending a
push notification to the receiver's
device informing them that the current
player has just called them out.
So that's great.
We can now programmatically issue
challenges to players within your game.
But what about the receiving end?
You recall that we displayed a
notification banner on the home screen
during the demo telling Megan that
she just got a challenge from Unus.
And when she tapped it,
it launched the game with a special
challenge mode for the challenge
that the player just selected,
right?
Well,
if your game is even currently running,
automatically we display a similar
drop-down banner telling the player
that they just received a challenge.
And if they select that banner,
if they tap on it at
the top of the screen,
that will allow you to hook
into an event to display
custom UI to the player saying,
hey,
this is the challenge you just tapped.
Unus Park is telling you, let's play,
and here's the score information or
the achievement that you got to earn.
And maybe even after that,
you could put in a new gameplay mode.
Based around the challenge.
Really anything you wanted to do.
So to hook into this selection event,
this tapping of that banner,
you can do that through what's called
the GK Challenge Event Handler.
Now, the GK Challenge Event Handler
is just the call center for all
challenge-related events on Game Center.
It's a singleton,
and it has a delegate that you assign.
It's very similar to a lot
of other patterns within
both Game Center and UIKit.
And it handles events for
reception of challenges,
selecting challenges.
Completing challenges.
You can even customize whether
those banners will be appearing
in your game when challenges are
received or when they're completed.
So to handle the case of the
current player tapping that
challenge received banner,
thus they're interested in
playing against that challenge,
the steps you need to take are such.
You set up the delegate and you
override the appropriate event.
So in this case,
it's a challenge banner was just
displayed and the user tapped on it,
and you want to display some
sort of custom UI and maybe even
start your game in a new mode.
So to display this player's
photo and maybe their name,
you've got to retrieve the
issuing player's name and photo.
As well as,
if you're going to start your game
up in a new challenge-centric mode,
you load any appropriate data
for the score or achievement that
has to do with that challenge.
And then you present your custom
UI and away the player goes.
So let's take a look at the code that's
required for implementing this custom
UI and hooking into the challenge event.
First, for setting up the delegate,
you'll see here that the application is
going to be a little bit more complex.
The application delegate is
implementing the GK challenge
event handler delegate protocol.
Now, this could be any object that
implements this protocol.
We're just using it here because it's a
pretty straightforward use of an example.
And you'll notice application did
finish launching with options.
As soon as possible,
we're setting up the delegate
for that shared instance of the
GK challenge event handler object.
Set up the delegate, and right then,
you are hooked into the
challenge event stream,
and you will get told any time the
local player got a challenge received.
or they completed a challenge,
or tapped a banner.
Now,
in order to implement the code for the
player selecting a challenge banner,
we provide a method for the
delegate to implement called
LocalPlayerDidSelectChallenge.
Now, to display that player's name,
the issuing player's name in their photo,
it's very straightforward.
A challenge holds a reference or to
the player ID for the issuing player.
Now,
this player ID is just a unique handle
that refers to a Game Center player.
And you can load the
GKPlayer object with that ID,
calling LoadPlayersForIdentifiers.
And when this completion
handler is called,
you get a reference to the GKPlayer
object that player ID represents.
Now, we want to load a photo, right?
So you call on that GKPlayer object,
load photo for size.
You pass in the appropriate size.
In this case,
Eunice's photo is pretty big,
so we're passing in GK photo size normal.
And when that completion
handler is called back,
you just present the challenge
UI that you wish to present.
And you load any additional data
that you wish to have as well
in order to put your game into a
new sort of challenge-based mode.
So I keep talking about
challenge-based modes and loading data.
Let's take a look at what we
could do here with this challenge.
Load data for challenge.
Let's say the challenge that was
received was a score challenge.
Well, something we could do with a score
challenge is score challenges
contain a reference to a GK score
object that was used to create it.
And recall that scores have context,
right?
So let's say you encoded a URL holding
gameplay like ghost replay data
of how Eunice scored those 500
points when she challenged Jessica.
Well, right here,
you could load up that ghost data when
Jessica selects the challenge banner
so that when Jessica is playing your
game and racing through the stars,
Eunice's ship is right
alongside with her.
Now, this isn't real-time multiplayer,
but it's a very similar experience.
Jessica sees Eunice calling
her out the entire way,
and you're just raising the
bar of competition there.
This is just one of many examples
of what you could do with context as
well as challenges and achievements
in order to make your game really
special and truly stand out amongst
all the other games on the App Store.
So we've got issuing challenges
as well as receiving and
selecting those challenges.
What about when a challenge is completed?
Well,
when a player completes a challenge,
by default,
we present that little banner saying
you just beat so-and-so's challenge.
But maybe you want to jazz it up a bit.
Maybe you really want to
give them a pat on the back.
And you want to show
some custom UI that says,
"Hey, way to go.
You did a really great job.
This challenge is beaten." Maybe you
want to show an icon of the
achievement or the score leaderboard
that that challenge was for.
Well, you can do this very similar
to the previous example of a
player selecting a challenge.
You just need to implement local
player did complete challenge in
your challenge handler delegate.
And in the case of displaying a
UI image that is based off of the
score or the achievement icon,
to do that, if it's a score challenge,
recall, scores, score challenges have a
reference to their scores.
So you can look up the
leaderboard icon for that score.
And just the same,
achievement challenges have
references to the achievements that
were used to send that challenge.
So you can look up in a lookup
table somewhere in your game to
get the icon for the achievement.
And finally, you just show your
completed challenge UI.
You blast some particle effects,
sound the trumpets,
whatever you got to do in order
to give your players that sense
of they've done something special,
and they've beaten their
friends in your game.
So we've gone over two particular
events that you can hook into here.
When a player selects a challenge
banner or when they complete a challenge
on their device that they received.
But we provide you other events
that you can hook into here
that I'm not going to get into,
but I suggest you take a
look at the documentation.
So local player received challenge.
That's when the local player
received the challenge in any case.
Not just tapping the banner to
launch your game or within the game,
but anytime they receive a challenge
so you can present your own UI.
As well as when the remote
player completed a challenge.
So if I sent a challenge
to you and you beat it,
this is when I get a push
notification telling me that
you just beat my challenge.
So you could put in some
interesting stuff there as well.
As well as we give you control of
overriding the banner behavior.
If you want to hide those
Game Center banners are
displayed within your game,
you can turn those off at
your own at your own control.
So a couple things I want you to keep
in mind when it comes to challenges.
We recall this slide of issuing
a challenge programmatically,
and we're filtering out players for
the current challenge as well as
having the player enter in a message.
You want to make sure that the
players who are receiving a
challenge are ultimately decided
by your current local player,
as well as that message that's
being attached to the challenge.
You want the local player
to enter that message.
Challenges are from the heart.
I mean,
it's a friend calling out their friend,
saying,
"I bet you can't do better than me."
So you want to make sure that your
players know which friends they're
sending this challenge to and what
words they're using and message they're
sending when this challenge is issued.
That doesn't mean, though,
that you can't, you know,
push them in a direction, right?
Like, let's say you've got Jessica,
who just got a score of 500 points.
Maybe it wouldn't make too much
sense for her to challenge Ed,
who got 4 billion points in your game.
But for somebody like Eunice,
who only got 300 points,
maybe you want to present
to her the option of saying,
hey, here are all your friends.
Eunice scored less than you,
so maybe you want to challenge her.
But you can challenge
other people as well.
So how do we do that?
How do we suggest players
that the current player
could issue a challenge to?
We provide in the GameKit framework
a GK leaderboard object.
And this class allows you to query
scores that were posted to any
leaderboard you've set up in your game.
So let's say it's a score
for level one that we want to
filter all lesser scores for.
In this case,
we just create the GK leaderboard object.
You set its category to the leaderboard
string you've defined in iTunes Connect.
Then you set up the player
scope to be friends only.
That's because challenges can only be
issued to friends of the current player.
And in this case,
we're getting the top 100 scores
from all friends for level one.
Now, when you call load scores with
completion handler and that
completion handler is called back,
you will receive an array of all scores
that are for level one for friends.
And here you can filter that
array for any score that is less
than the score that was just
earned in that recent playthrough.
And finally, you present a friend picker.
Let the player decide, "OK, well,
it seems like Eunice scored less than me,
so maybe I want to challenge her.
But, you know, Ed's there as well,
and he's not selected by
default because he already got
4 billion points in this game,
but maybe I don't think he
could do it again." So let
them have that final control.
One other thing I want you to
keep in mind with challenges
specific to achievement
challenges is that by default,
once a player has earned an
achievement in your game,
they're no longer eligible to complete
a challenge for that achievement.
Now, the reason is a gameplay reason.
There may be achievements that you've
defined within your game that don't
make sense to be earned more than once.
So let's say you've got an
achievement for starting up
the game for the first time.
You can't start up a game for
the first time a second time,
so because of that sort of case,
we've defaulted the behavior of
you can't re-challenge people.
But we do provide you the
ability in iTunes Connect to
re-enable specific achievements,
to be re-challengeable.
Even if the current player has
already earned that achievement,
if this is set to "yes"
in iTunes Connect,
this "achievable more than once" option,
then players will be able to
challenge their friends over and
over again to earn this achievement.
And on the note of achievements,
I want to highlight that
achievements are your in to make
challenges as custom as you want.
I mean, we have scores, right?
And those are great.
But if you want to make it so that the
player has to backflip backwards through
a platforming level and never dying
and never pressing the turbo button,
and you want players to
challenge each other based on
those ridiculous guidelines,
be our guest.
Make an achievement that
has that sort of standard.
And when that achievement is earned,
well, a challenge could be completed.
But recall, though,
that your game has limited
achievements allotted to it.
You can only define so many.
And with the advent of game groups,
you know,
this is going to be a very crowded space.
So if you've got achievements that
maybe aren't fun or even sound
something like killed 100 aliens,
killed 200 aliens, killed 300, 400,
however many aliens,
that sounds like a leaderboard.
And you probably,
when you're thinking up of
these sorts of achievements,
if you've got a pattern like that,
maybe you should set it as a leaderboard.
And if you've got a pattern like that,
So that you have more
space for even more fun,
replayable challenges within your game.
So challenges, again,
are built in day one on iOS 6.
Your game will support it if you've
got leaderboards and achievements.
But we provide you API to extend
your game to provide custom
challenge-based gameplay modes.
And GK Score Context
for score challenges,
this is an awesome way to make any
score challenge seem like a visceral,
the player is right there,
in-your-face experience.
So I consider that you give
context a second look here.
And recall that challenges
are a personal message,
so give the issuing player of those
challenges final control and say over
who's going to receive the challenge and
what's going to be said along with it.
And as many times as possible,
if you have an achievement that would be,
you know,
would make sense for it to be replayable,
to be challenged over and over again,
then tick that box from no
to yes on iTunes Connect.
The more replayable
achievements you have,
the more fun everybody's going to have.
I bet you earned that achievement once,
but I don't think you could do it again.
It's that sort of gameplay, right?
So that's challenges.
And one more thing that I want
to talk about today is something
that you've heard about already.
I bet a lot of you out there have
different versions of your games.
You might have a light version.
You might have an HD version.
And now with Mountain Lion,
you're going to have some sort
of desktop version of your game,
right?
And wouldn't it be awesome if when I'm
playing the light version of your game,
And I score 500 points automatically on
the HD version and the desktop version.
Those 500 points are tracked right
out of the box so that when I upgrade
to the full version or when I go and
buy the desktop version of your game,
all my statistics are already there,
providing a consistent experience.
And similar for achievements.
If I earn an achievement in
one version of your game,
all other linked games
get that same achievement.
Well, we allow you to do this
as a mountain lion,
and it's called game groups.
Now, game groups, I'm happy to tell you,
requires no specific coding.
You don't have to code anything.
It's an iTunes
Connect configuration step.
And through game groups,
you can group leaderboards of
different versions of your game,
as well as achievements.
You can then, having linked leaderboards
and achievements,
allow your players to beat
challenges on any linked game
within that group ecosystem,
as well as cross-version multiplayer.
So that,
as you saw at the keynote a few days ago,
I could be playing a game.
And I could be playing a game on
the iPad against a friend who's
playing it on Mountain Lion.
A really cool,
powerful cross-platform experience
that lets your game be more
discoverable by everybody brings
all your players together.
So how do we do this?
How do we go about linking your games and
putting them into the same game group?
Well, I'm going to go through a
quick blow-by-blow here,
but I do suggest that you check out
the iTunes Connect session tomorrow.
I'll give you the time in a minute.
But let me just give you the points
that you need to keep in mind
when you're setting up your game.
And I'll give you the points that
you need to keep in mind when you're
setting up different versions of your
game to take advantage of game groups.
To group these games,
all you need to do is, in iTunes Connect,
is select one of the games that
you wish to add to a group.
From there, in iTunes Connect,
you'll see an option to move
this game to a new group.
So let's say all these three games
are different versions of Crush,
right?
So we define a Crush group.
Now we go through every
leaderboard within the game.
And we define a new group
identifier for those leaderboards.
So level one, level two, level three.
Level one gets group.level1.
Similar for achievements.
For every achievement in that game,
we define new group identifiers
for the achievements as well.
So for achievement one,
it's group.achievement1.
And now, when we want to actually add
other games to this group,
we select that game.
We move it to the Crush group.
And we go through any leaderboards
that we want to merge into that group.
So, hey,
we've got this level one leaderboard.
We want to link it with
that other game's level one.
We just give it the same group category.
And now, these two games are
linked for a leaderboard.
Now, if you want to link a
game for an achievement,
per se, let's say it's a new game that
you want to add to the group,
you move it to that Crush group.
You take the achievement
that you want to link it for.
Hey, it's achievement one,
so I want to link it with that
original game's achievement one.
Just give it the same group identifier.
And now those games are
linked for the achievement.
And from here on out,
after you've merged your leaderboards
and merged your achievements,
you can define new leaderboards
and specify which games are
eligible for that leaderboard.
Similar for achievements.
Maybe you want all games to be
eligible for this achievement
that you're defining.
That's how it works.
Now, for cross-version multiplayer,
to let your iPod Touch users play
against your players on Mountain Lion,
it's very simple as well.
You select one of your games
that you put into this group.
And you go to View Details,
Multiplayer Compatibility.
I hope you're all writing this down.
There's a test at the end of the session.
So, no, it's, again, iTunes Connect.
Take a look at it tomorrow.
It'll be great.
Go to Multiplayer Compatibility.
You've got a lot of different versions,
all the different versions of
your games that are in the group.
And from here,
you can specify that Crush Lite 1.1
is cross-compatible with all
versions of Crush HD for multiplayer,
which is also compatible with
1.01 and 2.0 of Super Crush.
And it's just like that,
provided you've got your network
code in the background or
you're using the term-based API,
all these games are now compatible with
each other for cross-version multiplayer.
So again, blow by blow, right?
Just keep these things
in mind tomorrow morning.
You need to define a group ID.
And from there,
you can convert your leaderboards
and achievements for any game into
grouped leaderboards and achievements.
And anytime you add a
new game to that group,
you just have to merge those
leaderboards and achievements together.
And finally,
if your game is multiplayer — oh,
I'm sorry.
And also, when you're defining new
leaderboards and new achievements
for all games in this group,
you can do that just like
you would any other time.
And then if your game is multiplayer and
you want to specify which versions of
your game are compatible with each other,
just do it right then.
So we've learned a ton today.
We've got players authenticating,
and they are talking to their friends
by sending them challenges of scores
and tweeting achievements to the world.
And again, with challenges,
there's this custom
API that you can use that,
while challenges are built in on day one,
you can make your game really,
really sing if you take
advantage of this extensible API.
As well as game groups to allow
players of any different version
of your game to play together,
to track their progress
across all versions,
to provide a solid upgrade
path to your players.
A really powerful option that
requires no code on your behalf.
But this was a ton of information, right?
So if you need information,
if you haven't been taking
notes and you're going to
flunk this test afterwards,
talk to Alan Schafer.
He's our graphics and game
technologies evangelist.
He's a great guy.
He'll answer all your questions.
We've got game center
documentation online,
as well as the Apple dev forums.
Now, for related sessions,
before you leave, what's new in iTunes
Connect for app developers?
I singled out already.
But if you've got a multiplayer game,
tomorrow at 10:15,
Christy is going to give a
great talk about using the
multiplayer stack in game center.
And Gabe is going to be giving
a talk right after that at
11:30 about building games for
OS X Mountain Lion and showing how easy,
how identical this framework
is across platforms.
What's new?
Really looking forward
to seeing you guys.
Thank you so much for coming out today.
I can't wait to see your games.
Thanks.